smart_meal_planner_backend/README.md, before:

# Smart AI Meal Planner Backend

[![CI Pipeline](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![CD Pipeline](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml)

A production-ready FastAPI backend for the Smart AI Meal Planner application. Built with modern Python and best practices for scalability, maintainability, and security. Deployed on Render with protected environments and optimized pip caching.

## Deployment Status
[![CD Pipeline](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml)

## Live API Endpoints
- Base URL: https://smart-ai-meal-planner.onrender.com
- Interactive Docs: https://smart-ai-meal-planner.onrender.com/docs
- API Reference: https://smart-ai-meal-planner.onrender.com/redoc

## Setup & Development

1. Create a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
```

2. Activate the virtual environment:
- Windows:
```bash
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```
- Unix/MacOS:
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Set up PostgreSQL:
- Create a database named 'smart_meal_planner'
- Update database credentials in config.py if needed

5. Initialize the database:
```bash
alembic upgrade head
```

6. Run the application:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

## API Documentation

Once the server is running, visit:
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8000/docs
- ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/redoc

## Features

- Inventory Management
- Recipe Management
- Shopping List
- AI-powered meal suggestions

## Project Structure

```
smart_meal_planner_backend/
├── alembic/
├── models/
│   ├── inventory.py
│   ├── recipe.py
│   └── shopping_list.py
├── config.py
├── database.py
├── main.py
└── requirements.txt
```

Commit message:

docs: update deployment info for automated Render deployment

smart_meal_planner_backend/README.md, after:

# Smart AI Meal Planner Backend

[![CI Pipeline](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![CD Pipeline](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml)

A production-ready FastAPI backend for the Smart AI Meal Planner application. Built with modern Python and best practices for scalability, maintainability, and security. Deployed on Render with automated GitHub Actions deployment and optimized pip caching.

## Deployment Status
[![CD Pipeline](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hazzler78/smart-ai-meal-planner/actions/workflows/cd.yml)

## Live API Endpoints
- Base URL: https://smart-ai-meal-planner.onrender.com
- Interactive Docs: https://smart-ai-meal-planner.onrender.com/docs
- API Reference: https://smart-ai-meal-planner.onrender.com/redoc

## Setup & Development

1. Create a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
```

2. Activate the virtual environment:
- Windows:
```bash
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```
- Unix/MacOS:
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Set up PostgreSQL:
- Create a database named 'smart_meal_planner'
- Update database credentials in config.py if needed

5. Initialize the database:
```bash
alembic upgrade head
```

6. Run the application:
```bash
uvicorn main:app --reload
```

## API Documentation

Once the server is running, visit:
- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8000/docs
- ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/redoc

## Features

- Inventory Management
- Recipe Management
- Shopping List
- AI-powered meal suggestions

## Project Structure

```
smart_meal_planner_backend/
├── alembic/
├── models/
│   ├── inventory.py
│   ├── recipe.py
│   └── shopping_list.py
├── config.py
├── database.py
├── main.py
└── requirements.txt
```
